<pre>
Currently, this repository is still in its infancy.
Contributors are asked to focus on extending [[wlip-0003/preliminary-word-lists/english_us|preliminary word list]].
Please see more info below under "How can I contribute" question.
</pre>

==How can I contribute?==
Currently, this repository is still in its infancy.
Contributors are asked to focus on extending [[wlip-0003/preliminary-word-lists/english_us|preliminary word list]].
Let's first add ~5k words (they should be manually chosen):
* length does not matter here - a word might be too long for English list, but it might be appropriate for other lists,
* common nouns and adjectives known to everyone; they should come from some kind of widely accepted source (well-known dictionaries)
* it does not matter that some words might be less known in some of the countries (for example animals or fruits),
* avoid words from groups like religion, i.e. words which might lead to some unnecessary discussions,
* <p>it is OK if some people especially children would not understand some of them,
    but it should not 'put in trouble' (no embarrassing words) people who know the meaning and are asked for an explanation.
    This is a vague definition but there is no point to try to better define such words.
    When in doubt, please simply come up with another word.</p>
* <p>hopefully grouping them by category will help; let's keep order (may be simply alphabetical) within each such group;
    feel free to add more groups.</p>

Preliminary word list creation is a prerequisite to start work on the word lists.

==Is there any roadmap? How can I add a word list for a new language?==
Again, this repo is still in its infancy. The work should progress as follows:
* finishing [[wlip-0003/preliminary-word-lists/english_us|preliminary word list]]
* for each language:
** translate preliminary_word_list
** create a draft of the word list by extracting words fulfilling requirements; this can be automated using the script:
  `python3 scripts/create_word_list.py -l translated_preliminary_word_list`
** manually polish the list

==When can I expect language_x to be added?==
After the creation of [[wlip-0003/preliminary-word-lists/english_us|preliminary word list]] things should speed up.
However, the work on wlips is not meant to be done any under time pressure.
The lists should be released within reasonable periods.
However, as a prerequisite, at least a couple of them should be created to prove the approach is correct.
The work might need to be paused, some conclusions drawn and the approach readjusted.
They should be though rather of minor importance.

==Why it is allowed for the lists to share common words?==
Some people believe that duplicates across the lists should be forbidden.
They believe that it would allow recognizing a list using just one random word.
However, it would cause more problems than benefits.
Why? It is because:
* which words will be most likely duplicated? the ones which are the most common,
* with each new list, the task of choosing words will be harder and harder,
* <p>one should not recognize lists not by a single word, but by an industry-standard solution:
    using hashes (it is part of WLIP-0002 proposal).
    Thanks to it even multiple lists for a single language may coexist.
    For example, the current English list and hopefully a newer one, fulfilling new requirements,</p>
* <p>one should use it as an advantage - the more words shared across the lists, the easier to create them.
    Also, the number of commonly shared words should not be limited - the more the better.</p>
